now to the US where demonstrators put up
red stained hands and placers in the air
behind Secretary of State Anthony
blinkin and Secretary of Defense Lloyd
Austin in Washington DC earlier the
anti-war protest was when blinkin and
Austin testified to the Senate
Appropriations Committee on Biden's
request for $16 billion to fund ambition
plan Ambi Ambitions plans for Ukraine
let's go over to Capitol Hill and Heidi
Jo Castro for the latest quite a Rowdy
session there how
that's right fly in fact the Secretary
of State anony Lincoln couldn't even
finish his introductory remarks without
eight interruptions by these protesters
who were eventually removed they were
chanting their ceasefire in Gaza and
save gaza's children and they held up
those hands that were painted red
because of course this hearing wasn't
just about Ukraine Aid it was also about
$14 billion of aid for Israel that the
White House has has asked Congress to
approve and blinkin along with the
defense secretary their role at this
hearing is to sell Senators on giving
the White House what it wants and
blinkin as expected repeated that he was
steadfast that the US is steadfast in
its backing of Israel in fact he
described with unprecedented graphic
details of the death suffered by Israeli
civilians on October 7th notably he made
no mention of the death suffered by Gaz
and civilians in the time since but he
did emphasize that the US is working
more on humanitarian assistance to Gaza
including upping the number of Aid
trucks now passing through the Rafa
border from 60 which is at currently up
to a 100 and blinkin also said there is
no indication th far that fears that the
Israelis have that this Aid could be
diverted to Hamas that has not been the
case and there's no evidence to show
otherwise yeah and Heidi this growing
opposition from republicans in Congress
to this Aid package will it
pass yeah see there's bipartisan support
for that $14 billion for Israel but that
is linked in this Aid package to the $60
billion that is for Ukraine and there is
a dissension among Republicans about
whether the US should continue
supporting the ukrainians uh this is
because the US wants those fiscal
conservatives want to spend less money
on these foreign entanglements but as
far as the part of Israel is concerned
the question isn't whether this aid for
Israel from the US will pass but just in
what form be it attached to the
Ukrainian Aid or as a standalone item
and in either case there are bills in
both Chambers in the Senate and in the
house to advance that Aid at least for
Israel and it is expected to pass in the
coming week Heidi thank you very much
for the update Heidi she cast your life
for us there on Capitol Hill